Being discontent, anybody like where
you're not happy with where you're at
with your job or the car you have, or
the iPhone you have or don't have, or the
things you do have, and the things you
like, you found yourself, just discontent.
You're wanting more.
I'm telling you, we live in a world
where there's always something better.
There's always something that
you don't have that somebody
else has that you wish you had.
And we consistent continually
are drawn towards that.
And so today we're going to talk
about how to have contentment and
the value of contentment is found
not in the possession of things,
but then in the presence of God.
And so I'll say that again, that
contentment is found, not in the presence
of things, but in the presence of God.
Right?
So I think I said a little bit.
But as we've been walking through
first Timothy, there's a couple of
things that we've been talking about.
We've been addressing false teachers,
which we're going to talk about today.
Again, we've been talking about how
we conduct ourselves in the church so
that we know how to, to live together.
We know how to appoint leaders
and we know how to live as a
reflection of Christ to others.
And the last couple of weeks that we've
talked, I've been in first Timothy,
we've talked about how to care for
different people, widows and pastors.
And this week in the first couple
of verses, we're going to talk about
how to care or how to not care, but
how to conduct ourselves, going back
to that, um, as servants of Christ.
And so Paul's going to address
that, but he's also going to address
false teachers who were teaching.
Um, obviously false doctrine or false
teaching that was specifically to the
idea behind trying to gain, um, material
gain out of spiritual godliness.
And so some of us know this is
the prosperity gospel, right?
If we are godly enough, we'll get
material gain and that's just not true.
And we'll see how this comes together.
So I'm going to quickly go ahead
and jump in the text so we can work.
And then we will, um,
see what God has for us.
So let's jump in again.
First Timothy chapter six, starting in
verse one, it says this all who are under
the yolk as slaves should regard their
own masters as worthy of all respect.
So that then God's name in his
teaching will not be blessed.
Let those who have believing masters not
be disrespectful to them be because they
are brothers, but serve them even better.
Since those who benefit from the
service are believers and dearly.
Teach and encourage these things.
If anyone teaches false doctrine and
does not agree with sound teaching of
the Lord, Jesus Christ with the teaching
that promotes godliness, he is conceded
and understands nothing, but has an
unhealthy interest in disputes and
arguments over words from these com.
Coraline slander evil suspicions
and constant disagreements among
people whose minds are depraved and
deprived of the truth, who imagined
that godliness as a way to material.
But godliness with contentment is great
gain for, we brought nothing into this
world and we can take nothing out.
If we have food and clothing, we can be
content with these, but those who want to
be rich, fall into temptation, attract.
And many foolish, harmful desires,
which plunge people into ruin and
destruction for the love of money
is a root of all kinds of evils.
And by craving it, some have
wandered away from the faith and
pierced themselves with many griefs.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus,
we thank you for today.
We thank you for this opportunity to
open your word and begin to walk through
it together and to learn from you.
And so Lord, I pray that each
one of our hearts and minds are
open to what you want to do.
Lord.
I pray that you'd guide me to be
able to, um, help teach this in a way
that honors you and glorifies you.
And we pray this in your headline name.
Okay.
So the first thing we're going to see in
these first couple of verses is how to
conduct ourselves as servants of Christ.
And so now we know, obviously
speaking, Paul speaking to Timothy,
who is going to be speaking
directly to slaves in that time.
And so you may be saying, Hey one,
we don't deal with slaves in America.
And so I'm going to say, yeah, we probably
don't deal with that in the world.
There still is.
But let's specifically talk about.
That time in which they
were talking about slavery.
And then we'll come back and talk about
how we can apply this to our lives, but
Paul's addressing slaves during this
time, because as we begin to look at
this text, some historians believe that
have estimated half of the population
of Rome was composed of slaves.
That's crazy.
Right.
Very very present topic in their day.
So many of these slaves
became believers, right?
The gospel was spread.
These slaves come to faith in Christ
and they had this new freedom in Christ.
New freedom from sin.
But they're still enslaved,
which is a difficult position.
So Paul was in dressing the slaves to
regard their masters as worthy of respect.
And so, you know what, this, this
is not Paul condoning slavery and
saying, Hey, this is great thing to do.
What he's saying is if you're
in this position, here's a
way to honor Christ in it.
No matter what position they
were in, he wanted them to honor.
And so some of these slaves, as they
came to Christ, many believe they may
have been using their new freedom and
Christ as an excuse to disobey their
masters, to not be godly towards them,
but to actually be revolting and again,
to make this as clear as possible.
Paul's not condoning slavery in the
fact of that, if they were being treated
horribly, that they shouldn't fight back.
What he is saying is if this is
the position in which you're in,
here's how you're supposed to act.
And so you may be asking,
well, why were they slaves?
Why were so many people's slaves?
Well, in that time, you know, today we
talk about money and then when we run
out of money, while we have, we can
go get in debt to pay off our debts.
Many of these slaves, not all.
Would go into slavery to pay off debts.
They would say, I'll work for
you for a certain amount of time.
I'll become your slave
until this debt is paid off.
So some of those.
Voluntarily chose that because of the
debt in which they were in, some of
these slaves were slaves from war, right.
So if they got anybody from a war
and they obviously brought them into
prison, they would enslave them.
And so the choice was be a slave
or be killed as an enemy of war.
I think I would choose slavery over that.
Right.
And then we obviously have
some of the bad right.
It's which is people who were forced
into slavery and there's obvious.
What I would say is for
slavery is a horrible act.
It should not be condoned.
It should not be accepted.
We went through that in our
past history in America.
It is a horrible thing.
And, uh, again, so, you know, the
Bible's not condoning that at all, but
what Paul is saying is these people
were in this situation as believers.
How do you handle it?
So.
Two things, right?
Two things that he wanted them to
know is number one is, and I think
this is important for all of us.
And I want to read first
Corinthians chapter six verses
19 through 20 to talk about this.
After we give our lives to
Christ, this is what it says.
Don't you know that your
body is a temple of the holy.
Who is in you, whom you have
from God, you are not your own
for you were bought at a price.
So glorify God in your body.
This is a reminder of the slaves and
to ourselves, that at the moment that
we've given our lives to Christ, no
matter where we live, no matter what
circumstance we're in, we are Christ.
To the world, right?
So these slaves, whether free or
enslaved were not their own, right.
They were to be used for the glory of
God, no matter where they were serving.
And so Paul was reminding them to be
faithful, where they were to trust God
would change their circumstances if
he desired for them to be somewhere.
And so that's the point where I would
just challenge you in this thought
of what Paul's pushing them towards.
And I think of Matthew 6 30, 1
through 34, this is something
that was sticks out to me.
Don't worry saying, what will
we eat or what will we drink?
And this is speaking in regards to
where we're working or how we're,
uh, what situation of life we're in.
Right?
Don't worry about that.
He says for the Gentiles eagerly
seek all of these things and your
heavenly father knows what you.
So in that statement, if God needed
them out of slavery to go fulfill his
mission, he would have taken them out.
He left them in for a reason
to use them to glorify God.
He says, but seek first, the kingdom
of God and his righteousness and all
these things will be provided for you.
So therefore don't worry about tomorrow
because tomorrow will worry about itself.
Each day has its own troubles.
So Paul is directing
specifically to be faithful.
And we look at this first
verse here, he's speaking.
To slaves who would be believers in
Christ and having unbelieving masters.
This is key.
Believers in Christ who
have an unbelieving masters.
And so in which the way in which
they would serve would honor Christ.
And that's what it says.
So God's name and his teaching will not
be blasting, which means that they were
honoring and serving their master well.
But then we look at verse
two and this is verse two.
It says, let those who have believing
masters, not be disrespectful to
them because they are brothers,
but serve them even better.
Since those who benefit from their
services are believers and dearly.
So as Paul's addressing his slaves who
have believing masters, he's addressing
them in this way, that now, if I'm a
believer as a slave, and you're a believer
as a master we're co-equal, I mean, so
you guys know this, it doesn't matter
what position you have in this world.
If you're a believer and you're homeless,
and you're a believer and you're CEO,
you're still equal in the kingdom of God.
So these slaves, they moved from
here to here in the kingdom of God,
but their position day to day was.
And so what Paul was saying was you need
to be respectful of their position, even
though you may be co heirs with Christ.
And so, as he saying, be respectful
because they are brothers or sisters
in Christ, serve them even better
because they would help their master who
influences others for the sake of Christ.
And I love that because he's speaking
directly to this, this thought is, as
these slaves would serve well to believe.
Masters, these believing masters would
be able to influence the kingdom of
God tremendously through the way in
which they serve them because they
were working together to further the.
So there should be mutual benefit.
And if you were here during the time
where we went through the book of
Ephesians, we dealt with this a little
bit deeper, but there should be mutual
benefit for the masters as well.
If you're believing master to treat your
slaves well, um, with respect, right?
And one of the things, as I began to
read about this, they said in that day,
it would be interesting during the week
they would work as slaves and masters
together, but they would come to church
and they would sit right next to.
That's a cool picture to think
that that is, is how it works then.
So what's the practical application today,
because again, you're sitting in the same.
Okay.
Maybe that sounds horrible, but we
know that slavery was a little bit
different then, and some of it was bad,
but what could that look like for us?
I don't know about you, but has
any of you felt like that you're
enslaved to your job or even to debt
the person in which you're in debt?
At times you can't.
I mean, I'm just being honest because
if you look at it wherever you're
at in your job, you have someone
in authority over the, over you
that can seem like they run you.
Like you're a slave
and they're the master.
I mean, and just being honest in this.
And so when we think about it this
way as believers, sometimes we can
feel like we are a slave to our job.
And if you think about your, your, your
employee or your employer or your boss,
they could be an unbeliever and being
an unbeliever in your being a believer.
Sometimes you want to give
a half-hearted effort.
Sometimes you want to act like, eh, you
know what, uh, they're not treating me
well, so I'm not going to treat them well.
Right.
Which we start to justify ourselves.
Well, they're not a believer.
It doesn't really matter.
Right?
Well, just like Paul was a challenging,
the believing slaves to the unbelieving
masters is we have the ability to
work as though we're working for.
Because we are an everything that we
do every single day, no matter what job
you have, you are working for the Lord.
You're not working for put in the,
the, the blank of wherever you
work, you're working for the Lord.
And so it's important that we work as
though we can reflect Christ, right?
So that we can lead other people.
And hopefully our employees, our
employers, or our bosses to the Lord.
But what if our employer is saved, right?
What if our employers saved?
And, and we're saying.
Does that change our
position in how we serve?
Maybe we could start thinking, Hey,
well, you know, I should get a break.
And so you may be asking this question.
It, do you think that there's
believers out there that actually
have other believing bosses
that take advantage of them?
They do, because why my
boss is going to forgive me.
He's going to extend grace.
I mean, he's a believer.
He's got.
You know, and so they begin to justify
why they, they do these things.
And so I would say I've seen both of
these things happen in my lifetime.
Both of these things
happen in my lifetime.
Number one, uh, as I'm serving on
staff at a church, you'd be amazed,
especially when we had interns come in,
not speaking about Anna, Anna's great.
We would have interns coming in and it
was something to this effect effect that
they would begin to think that, well, I'm
an intern and I'm working for a church.
This has gotta be.
You know, they're, they're
going to take it easy on me.
And so we would set standards
and, and they wouldn't meet them.
And so we'd sit down and
say, what's going on?
And they'd be like, oh, you know,
just didn't want to wake up today.
And it's like, no, like you're
taking advantage of the church.
And so that's an example of a believer
taking advantage of a believer
because, oh, well, you know, they're
gonna understand, but I've also
seen in my own personal life, when
I gave my life to Christ, I started
thinking, you know what, I'm working
for a non-Christian organization.
You know what?
They don't care about me.
They're not respecting me, but I
started thinking I'm representing the.
And I began to change my mind.
So I was the person doing a poor
job, and I began to change my mind,
realizing that I could make a difference.
Right.
And so Paul's speaking to slaves, but
he's also speaking to servants of Christ.
That we are reflecting, no
matter our place and position who
Christ is to the world around us.
And if, and this is the thing, if
you're working for a believing boss,
you have the ability to explain the
kingdom of God, because if they're
a believer, a lot of times, those
people are making a difference and
so you can help make a difference.
So that's the first part that
Paul addressed here in these first
couple of verses how slaves or
servants should conduct themselves.
But then Paul begins to
change this challenge, right?
He begins to now address false
teaching and false teachers
who misuse the word of God.
And so I'll ask this again.
Why is it important as a church
to call out false teaching?
Why?
I guess you guys don't care if we call
that false teaching, why is it important?
Why, why is it important
that we are teaching people.
To figure out who's teaching
faults and not believe it.
Why is that important?
We don't get led astray,
we're protecting each other.
And so I would, uh, I would say this,
I mean, if you came here on Wednesday
night, we had a group come here on
Wednesday night, our mission team
from last week and we had some of our
small groups coming together and I
got a 1 29 and the traffic was bad.
I started making this many
phone calls as I could.
Cause we went in early and I said,
Hey, take an alternate route.
What was I doing?
I was warning our people from
being stuck in traffic led astray.
Right.
I was saying go down the right path.
Cause you'll get there a lot quicker.
That's what we do.
We look, and we see, this
is what Paul is saying.
Hey, there's some false teachers that
are trying to teach something wrong.
We're looking here and going,
oh, we need to learn this because
we don't want to be led astray.
We don't want to get stuck in traffic.
We don't want to be off the
path where God's called us.
So this is where Paul's at.
So he says this, he says, teach
and encourage these things.
And the first thing he's going to talk
about in the first couple of verses three
through five is how to identify false.
How did NFI false teaching.
So we look at this first one here, it
says, teach and encourage these things.
If anyone teaches false doctrine,
that does not agree with sound
teaching of our Lord Jesus Christ.
With teaching that promotes godliness.
I'm going to stop just with verse three.
So number one, how do we identify false?
Teaching is one.
Their teaching does not match up with
sound doctrine or promote godliness.
What is doctrine or teaching?
Doctrine is teaching from God about
God that directs us to glorify God.
So sound doctrine is found when,
what we're teaching matches
up with what God's word says.
Now, that sounds simple.
Right?
But there's false teachers that open up
the word of God and preach false teaching.
So how do we know, let
me ask this question.
How can you know that today?
I'm not falsely teaching you how.
Okay.
I'm teaching from the word of God,
but also let's go a little bit further
just because I'm teaching I'm up here.
I have the word of God
open and I'm teaching.
How can you know and make sure that
what I'm teaching is not faults.
Okay.
Promotes godliness.
That's the second part.
And I appreciate you mentioned that
cause you're you're you're in it.
Yes.
So it has to promote godliness.
But you yourself need to read it.
You yourself need to study it.
So there's times whenever I used
to sit in service and listen to my
pastor preach, I just take everything
he said to heart everything.
But as you're listening to the
word of God, and as you're reading
the word of God, you need to say.
Aligning with what I believe
and what I know in the text.
And if you have something
that you're like, Hm, I'm not
quite sure go study about it.
And I've said this all along.
And so I am that type of
pastor that says this.
If I'm teaching something and it
doesn't align with what you're
believing, let's talk, why.
Because I want to make sure
that I'm teaching truth.
And so something that God
reveals to you, we can sit down
and we can talk about right.
We can work together to make sure
that we're on the right path, because
I don't want to also be this person.
That's just like, Nope,
believe every word I say, you
shouldn't, you should go test it.
Why?
Because that will protect
you from false teaching.
And we're going to learn more
and more about that as we.
So these false teachers were
teaching false doctrine.
That was not from God, right?
It didn't promote godliness,
just like what Joe said, right?
It's it promoted self
promotion and self control.
Um, and so their teaching didn't cause
people to come become more like, God,
I want to mention first Timothy four,
seven through 10, we talked a little
bit about godliness back in this, and
I wanted to read this scripture again.
He says, but have nothing to
do with pointless and silly.
And this is Paul's pointing to don't
have anything to do with false teaching.
Rather train yourself in godliness for
the training of the body has limited
benefit, but godliness is beneficial in
every way, since it holds a promise for
the present life also for the life of.
For this Saint as trustworthy and
deserving of full acceptance for this
reason we labor and strive because we
put our hope in the living God, who is
the savior of all people, especially
those who believe so training and
godliness is beneficial for us to
protect ourselves from false teaching.
We train in godliness
by knowing God more and.
Living like God more.
Right?
So these false teachers, if we look
at verses four and five, they're
teaching led to something and it
says, and I'm going to kind of
read first three and four together.
Cause it says it goes together.
If anyone teaches false doctrine and
does not agree with the sound teaching
of our Lord Jesus Christ and with the
teaching that promotes godliness, he
is conceded and understands nothing,
but has an unhealthy interest in
disputes and arguments over words.
From these envy, Corleen slander
evil suspicions and constant
disagreements among people who minds
are depraved and deprived of the truth.
I'm gonna stop right there.
So these false teachers attitudes
didn't match up with godliness.
So I say this number one, it
doesn't align with the word of God.
So that's how we can find out if,
if there are teaching falls, but
to their life or their character
does not match up with godliness.
What is godliness?
Somebody defined this?
My what is godly?
Reflecting God's character
looking more and more like
God acting more and more like.
Right.
Seeing how Christ lived, applying that to
our lives and becoming more godly, right.
We're not to become God himself, but to
me more Christ-like or to be more godly.
And so you look at their lives
and their character and the
way in which they're going.
And we see this text right here,
these false teachers were obviously
not reflecting that character.
Instead of being humble.
These false teachers were proud and
interested more in creating disputes
and arguments than creating peace and
leading people to act more like Christ.
So the result of their unspiritual
teaching created envy quarrelling
slander, evil suspicions, and
constant disagreements among people.
So they caused strife.
And I even started thinking about this,
these false teachers, the ones that
typically get sucked into falling, the
false teachers are your young believers.
Or what I would say is
an immature believer.
One that has not grown up in their faith.
So what do we do every week that we
come in here and what do we do every
time we come to small group and every
time we have a discipleship group, we're
trying to grow you up, teach you the
word so that you can know what's truth.
And what's not.
We've talked about this a lot.
How do does our federal
government figure out.
If there's any phony money coming in, they
study the original so well that it clicks.
Once they see it, they know it.
The moment they see it.
See for us, we've got to study
godliness and apply it to our lives
so that when false teaching comes
in, it clicks, this is not godly.
This person's character is not godly.
It does not align with the word of God.
So these leaders were trying to cause
division in the church for personal gain.
And so we see this, the, this,
the, the third part of this
is the back part of five.
It says they create constant
disagreements among people whose
minds are depraved and deprived of
truth, who imagined the guideline.
This is a way to material gain.
So their teaching was
motivated by personal gain.
Right?
So how do we identify false teachers?
Their teaching doesn't
align with the word of God.
Their attitude is not
line with a godliness.
And their teaching is
motivated by personal gain.
They believed that they could gain
something financial in their lives
by using godliness right there.
They used their religious
profession as a means to make money.
And they begin to focus more on that
than they did on the heart behind it.
And so for many of us, we may
say, well, it's easy to reject.
Not necessarily because I'm telling
you all across our world right now,
there's more and more pressure put on.
If you'll just do enough,
God will bless you.
If you'll just give
enough, God will bless you.
That's what you're missing.
If you don't do this, you won't
get this rather than pursuing
Christ and pursuing Christ.
Christ takes care of us.
Christ provides for us and they
were missing this completely.
So then Paul continues
on from there, right.
He says to teach and
encourage these things.
How do I identify these false teachers?
Right.
And we identify them by understanding
they don't match up with this, um, the
characteristics that we talked about,
their right and their motivational game,
but then he did begins to take this shift.
He's like, okay.
So they're trying to promote
godliness for material.
Now Paul begins to take a moment
to teach on the idea behind
what godliness should produce.
And he says this in verse six, but
godliness with contentment is great game.
So we are going to learn why we
should reject the teaching of
godliness as a way of material gain.
And we should now learn from
Paul, how godliness is great gain.
If we have Kentucky.
Godliness is great gain.
If we have contentment, because we
have to understand contentment is
something that God desires for us.
And so we're going to see your four
things that Paul begins to describe, um,
that we can learn why we should reject
this teaching and accept this truth
of contentment with, um, Godliness.
So the first one is here in verse
one or verse six, but godliness with
contentment is great gain, right?
Being wealthy doesn't mean
it will bring contentment.
Anybody ever found that, right?
The more money you have, the less content
you have, I don't know about you, but it
seems like the more money I had, the less
money I have anybody ever figured out.
It's because you tend to
spend it a little bit warm.
Um, I've spent some time
recently with somebody.
Um, and, uh, as I was walking with
them, they asked for some financial
advice and this is not many, nobody,
nobody knows here, so I'm not, but I'm
just, I'm talking to them and, and I'm
laughing because I think they, they
probably make like six times the amount
I do, but they don't have enough money.
And I, I didn't, I wasn't really critical
of them more than I just walked away
and just realized there's never a point.
We.
We do, we just don't right.
And so being wealthy doesn't
mean that it brings contentment.
What is contentment?
It is an inner sufficiency
that keeps us at peace in
spite of outward circumstances.
I'm gonna say that again,
contentment is an inner sufficiency
that keeps us at peace in spite
of our outward circumstances.
So Paul is saying becoming
more like Christ, right?
Godliness with contentment, which
is inner peace is greater gain
than our peace, which means we
have all the things we need.
But we have an inward Discontentment
because this is typically what happens.
The more money we receive,
the easier it is to live.
And what I mean by that is we have all
the things we need, but we feel empty and.
Because we're discontent or discontent.
And so Paul understands this because
he said in Philippians four, 10 through
13, he says, I rejoiced in the Lord
greatly because once you, again, once
again you renewed your care for me,
you were in fact concerned about me,
but lacked the opportunity to show it.
He says, I don't say this out
of need for, I have learned and
I'm going to stop right there.
Paul says he had learned to be content.
Even Paul had to learn contentment.
Sometimes I think we look at these
spiritual characters and we think God just
gave them an extra blessing of the spirit.
And they're just perfect.
He said he learned to be content through
the process of not having much and having
much I'm going to read the rest of first.
He says, I'm not saying this out of
need, but I have learned to be content
in whatever circumstances I find myself.
I know how to make it with little.
And I also know how to.
Do with a lot and in any, and all
circumstances, I have learned the
secret of being content, whether well
fed or hungry, whether in abundance
or need, I am able to do all things
through Christ who strengthens me.
This may be the first time you've
heard that verse in context.
Typically that last verse
is brought out of context.
The context is contentment.
I've learned to be content I can do.
I can have contentment through
all things with Christ, right?
So I love the statement by Warren Wiersbe.
He said this true contentment comes
from godliness in the heart, not
wealth in the hand, a person who
depends on material things for peace
and assurance will never be satisfied.
And, and, and I started thinking
through this, I think all of us, I
mean, let me just raise your hands.
If you've been discontent
with your financial position
at any point in your life.
All of us had to have discontented before.
Right.
And that Discontentment sometimes
really distracts us from
recognizing what we already have.
And so I started thinking
through this, have you ever
noticed the more that you have?
And so I would say that it seems like
every time I would buy something,
it seemed like it started like
nagging at me that I wasn't using it.
If you buy it and you don't use
it, you feel like you have to.
Boats are great examples.
It's like, ah, we need to buy
a boat because we need it.
Then you get the boat and then it's
sitting and you're going, I really need
to use that, but we don't have time.
So I'm going to, okay.
So then you start using it.
Well, then now you got to take care
of it, then you gotta store it.
And all this focus is put on it's energy.
I'm not criticizing you have a boat,
but I'm just using that as examples.
Trust me, I'm not all I'm saying is
that's an example of like, we just tend
to get distracted from things, right?
So it may not be a boat.
It may be.
A new iPhone.
And once you get the new iPhone, you're
trying to figure out everything new on it.
Right.
And you've got the apps
and all the things on it.
And I'll tell you this.
I've got discontents sometimes.
And this is funny.
I put games on my phone and all of a
sudden I catch myself playing them all
the time and they're distracting me.
And it's like, I got
to win the next level.
And I'm like, what am I doing?
I've got to get like, so I'm
like deleting these apps off.
Right?
So even small things like that,
we can begin to be discontent.
All of us understand that,
but having more, been wealthy,
doesn't bring contentment.
And that's exactly where
Paul is saying here.
Right?
That, that godliness with
contentment is better.
Right.
But then he talks about verse seven.
Your wealth will not last in verse seven.
It says for, we brought nothing into
this world and we can take nothing.
The statement that's usually
always made anybody ever see a
U haul on the back of a hearse.
And the thing is you probably
have there's a picture out there
somewhere, but when they get to the
place to bury the person, they're not
going to dump everything in there.
And, and here's the,
even the crazier part.
So I'm going to go a
little theological here.
Do you know that your body
doesn't even go with you?
It still stays in the grave.
Now later Jesus comes back and
you know, our spirit obviously
goes to the, to the Lord.
He says, we get a new body, but even
our body doesn't like, so we can't not.
Anything with us when we die.
So when he's looking at this, he's
saying for, we brought nothing to
the world, we can take nothing out.
The only thing we can take out is what
God's given us salvation of our souls.
And that's the crazy part.
When we think about this is that our
wealth will not last when we're focusing
the majority of our efforts on our
wealth, on gaining more and more and
more and more and more and more and more.
And all of a sudden you die who gets them.
Somebody else who's gonna focus
on the more and more and more.
So by focusing on wealth in
this life, we can miss out on
what can last for eternity.
So let me read this.
Matthew six 19 through 21 says this do
not store up for yourselves treasures on
earth, where moth or rust destroys, where
thieves break in and steal, but store
up for yourselves treasures in heaven,
where neither moth nor rust destroys
where thieves don't break in, instill
for there where your treasure is there.
Your heart will be also, has
anybody found the bank where you
can like deposit money for return?
We should create one.
Cause I bet you people would put
deposit money into that bank.
I've got a new job opportunity.
I'm leaving.
I guess.
I, okay.
Wait, wait.
I've just turned in the false teachers
because there's material gain with this.
What I'm saying though?
I'm sorry.
I had a laugh about that one.
Okay.
So whenever you think about this,
how do we invest in eternity?
So somebody answered that question.
How do you invest in an attorney?
There's not a bank out
there to deposit money.
How do we invest in.
Invest in people invest in
things that are going to make a
difference for the kingdom of God.
When you do it says this for where your
treasure is there, your heart is also
when you're investing those things.
You spend time with them.
We talked about the boat or the
phone or the house or the car.
When you buy those things, you invest
time in them because they're important
to you when you invest your resources,
your treasures into things that
will last for eternity, you tend to.
Have your heart in those, you tend
to spend more time with those things.
And so that's why it's important, right?
To think about that.
But how do we combat this idea of
Discontentment this Discontentment
through greed or material gain?
Does anybody know, get rid of a general.
Give it away, give it away.
And I'm not saying to the point of
like, now you don't have anything,
but as you give, it changes your
perspective because ultimately we talk
about it in the church, giving a tie.
Then I, I think it's good to give, I
personally give, I think that makes a
difference because what you're invested
in here and impacts the kingdom of
God, but the other 90% that we keep,
do you know that that's God's too.
And that that is investing in things.
And so we, we begin to think about what
are we investing all of our money in?
Is it impacting the kingdom of
God with how we're investing that
money or our time or our efforts?
Right?
So acts 2035 says this in every way,
I've shown you that is necessary to
help the weak by laboring like this.
And to remember the words of the
Lord Jesus, because he said it is
more blessed to give than to receive.
So we obviously know our wealth
will not last forever, so we did
not need to be consumed by it.
We need to give it away.
That will impact the kingdom of God.
So the third one here in verse eight,
our basic needs are easily met.
So he goes from verse seven, where
we brought nothing to this water.
We can take nothing out and then he goes,
and if you have food and clothing, we will
be content with it, food and clothing.
That's the basics that Paul says.
If you have food and you have clothing,
that shouldn't be all you need for.
How many all know that doesn't
make me content at times,
because I want something more.
We want something more and
it challenges us, right?
Because we want something more.
But here's the statistic for you.
As I begin to think through this,
um, if you have food and clothing
and a house or a roof over your head,
you're richer than 75% of the world.
So here's another challenge because
again, I start looking at these things
and going, man, I didn't really need
to learn a little more about this.
You can actually.
Out on the internet.
How rich are you, you can put in where you
live, your income and your household size.
And it'll tell you how rich you are.
Our family is 88% richer or
richer than 88% of the world.
That's crazy.
88% richer than, and again, they're
talking about in terms of salary
and amount of family, things like
this, but like that just gave
me perspective and this idea of
whenever I think I don't have any.
I become discontent and I begin to do
whatever I can to figure out and make sure
I fulfill that contentment in my life.
And it never works.
It never works.
So Henry thorugh said this, he says a man
is wealthy in proportion to the number
of things he can afford to do without.
I'm gonna say this again.
A man is wealthy in proportion to the
number of things he can afford to do with.
That's something.
I think all of us can
take home with us today.
So it's easy to get caught
up in the next great thing.
Right.
But we need to seek first, the
kingdom of God, we need to seek
first what God has called us to do.
Right.
And don't see godliness.
This is what these teachers don't see.
Godliness thinking that it's going to
produce material gain, see godliness
because Jesus is better than any of that.
And the things in what you receive from
him gives you the peace, not the material.
He gives you peace.
So last thing is these verses nine and
10 is the desire for wealth leads to sin.
He says, but for those who want to
be rich, fall into temptation, a
trap and many foolish and harmful
desires, which plunge people into
ruin and destruction for the love of
money is a root of all kinds of evil.
And by craving it, some have
wandered away from the faith and
pierced themselves with many griefs.
So Paul didn't say, and I think this is
key, Paul, didn't say those who have rich.
But those who desire for more
riches, those who desire to be rich.
So look in the Bible, there's plenty
of people who were faithful to
God who had a lot of money, right?
So that's not what he's saying.
He's saying when you begin to put
money, the possession of riches above
pursuing God, it becomes a distraction
to you now you've got it out of order.
So Paul is speaking to
those who never have.
Right.
That need more.
And he says that these things are a trap.
So go back to the statement of, I made
the quick phone call so that people
wouldn't drive down the wrong road.
I cared so much that they
wouldn't get caught up in traffic.
This is what Paul is saying.
He's like, I don't want you to
get trapped in the sinful idea.
That material gain is
going to fulfill your.
It will not fulfill your need.
It is a trap to lead to
sin over and over again.
It's not freedom, but it's bondage.
It can lead to additional desires
and create idols in our life.
So Paul has painted a picture of a
person who's drowning, who stuck in
coveting and designed to be rich.
And he makes the statement.
Anybody misquoted verse 10 before I know
I have, I misquoted verse 10 before for
the love of money is the root of all evil.
You ever said that before.
It's not.
It's the love of money is a
root of and root, root, whatever
you want to say, whichever way.
Okay.
I know I've said it three different
ways and just take it for all
y'all of all kinds of evil.
So anybody ever had a, a rut or
rut, whatever you want to call it,
and it begins to sprout out, right?
If you don't cut, you know this
with weeds, you can just cut the
top off, but it's going to go back.
So what it's saying is that he can
sprout off and they begin to create
these different desires and it
can lead us to all kinds of evil.
It can.
But it is not all evil, right?
Having money is not all evil because some
will teach it in such a way that the only
way in which you can be spiritual is if
you're poor, that's not a true statement.
That's just the way
sometimes we've missed it.
Right.
So think about this, the love of money.
Is not evil or something.
The, uh, I'll say this in the right way.
The love of money is a root of all kinds
of evil, but money is not evil, right?
The love of it is so I'll
give you some other examples.
Alcohol is not evil.
The love of it.
Drunkenness is evil.
Food is not evil.
So this is going to speak to more people.
Food is not evil, but the love
of overeating of it is we can
say that about everything.
He's using money as a driving
force, to why some of the false
teachers were trying to persuade.
And to see people to get material gain.
And as these false teachers were
leading out and saying, Hey, be godly.
And you're going to receive material gain.
What they're saying is
give us some material gain.
It bless us.
And I promise you'll get material gain.
It started deceiving people into this idea
that we really experienced today that you
can receive more and more material gain.
If you'll just do more or give
more, God doesn't need our.
Now God doesn't need our art.
He just doesn't need it.
But what he's saying is when you pursue
him, it's an act it's a desire to give or
to, to be generous and to do those things.
And does God bless you
when you do those things?
Yeah, I think he does, but it's
not because we're trying to do
one thing to gain another thing.
So Paul is challenging Timothy
and the church and us to not get
sucked into the trap of greed and
Discontentment, but to seek godliness.
And to receive contempt, seek
contentment in the midst of them, right?
He says that this can lead to people
in this last part of the verse.
Some have wandered away from
the faith and perceived appears
to themselves with many griefs.
I would just say this at times, we can
get very, very distracted by possession.
And we need to, to see what Paul
is saying here is that it is,
it can lead us into sin into a
place that is not healthy for us.
So Paul started this chapter off, as we
conclude today, Paul start this chapter
off with how we should conduct ourselves
as servants of Christ, right in our
workplace with believers or unbelievers
has as employed as bosses or employers.
But he began to address
false teachers again.
Right.
And this idea of Paul's
trying to protect the church.
He's trying to protect the church
from being deceived by these false
teachers who were trying to teach
about guideline is producing great
material, gain, not godliness producing
contentment with what God has given you.
Right?
These false teachers can be
identified by their teaching,
not matching it with the word.
The false teachers attitude towards, uh,
matching up with the godliness and their
teaching motivated by personal gain.
If you're seeing these things,
you can begin to test and wonder,
is this teaching true or not?
And that's just this challenge of,
if you want to be ready and prepared
to build a reject false teaching in
your life, you need to be in the.
You need to be pursuing Christ
individually and asking the
Lord to give you wisdom, to see
that to not fall into that trap.
But then Paul began to speak
directly to anyone, including false
teachers who would desire material
gain over living a godly life.
So he began his teaching, this
contentment with great game
godliness with great content.
Love of money can easily distract
us from what God has called us to.
And I think there's every
day there's people that are
constantly being distracted.
So how do we believe, uh, prevent
believing in false teaching test
it, ask whether it leads to a person
looking more like Jesus, and to test,
to see if that person is reflecting.
So how do we even go into invitation?
How do we even conclude and even talk
about how we seek our hearts in this?
I think there's a couple
of things that we can do.
Number one, just going back to this
idea of how do we conduct ourselves
as servants of Christ is maybe you've
caught yourself being lazy at times.
Maybe you've caught yourself not
doing your best at your job, or maybe
it's because you're thinking you can
get away with, or you receive grace.
Maybe this is a time to
just say, you know what?
It's a time for me to.
I asked the Lord to forgive me and help
me give my best, because I know that I
need to reflect Christ no matter what this
person does or how they treated me for
some of us, maybe we've caught ourselves
believing the lies of false teachers,
especially in regards to the idea
that godliness can produce prosperity.
This is a great time to say.
I missed the mark.
I believed it.
And I fell for the trap and I
won't fall forward anymore and
ask the Lord to help you in them.
Maybe you've caught yourself
focusing more on money and
making more than you have been.
And it's distracted you from what
God has called you in your life.
You've treated Discontentment,
you've been beginning to put your
trust and faith in your position.
Not in the Lord.
And so you may be asking
this question, man.
I, you know, how many
people deal with this?
Probably everybody I've dealt with
it in the, in the studying of this.
I've asked myself this question,
what, who am I relying on more Jesus
or the possessions in which I can.
And I'm not talking about from a ministry
standpoint, just in my life, because it
seems like I'm always discontented about
where we are financially as a family.
The Lord's even brought me to a point
of asking God to forgive me, of relying
on myself and materials things and
to trust him that I should pursue
godliness, whether I receive nine houses
or whether I have food and clothing,
because that's all I need to have.
So during this time of invitation,
I just ask that you seek the Lord.
What is he teaching you?
What is he bringing into your heart and
mind today to bring to him and repent
of, or pour your heart out to, or ask for
protection from false teaching, whatever
it is, ask the Lord to walk with you.
And I'll just challenge
you with this it's frame.
When we ask the Lord to forgive
us of sin, it's freeing for us.
When we can run the race
that God has called.
Without the sin that so easily
entangles us, he says he can give us
contentment through forgiveness of sin.
So I'm going to pray for us.
My challenge, as I challenge every
single week, if you haven't given
your life to Christ and there's, uh,
on your heart and mind that you want
to give your life to Christ, you
have questions about what that means.
Come talk to me after service in the back.
I want to be here for you,
um, to walk through that.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We love you.
And we pray Lord that everything that was
spoke about today, Um, brings about an
opportunity for us to evaluate our lives.
Lord, not to just be better people,
but Lord, to really just even get
our hearts right with you in the area
of maybe our work and how we do that
Lord, or maybe it's even in the area
of our, our, um, our heart towards.
And Laura, or even maybe Lord,
it's our heart towards just our
relationship with you and how
we, we create this transactional
relationship where if we do all these
things, Lord, that you'll bless us.
Whenever you promised over and over
again, or the full to seek first,
the kingdom of God, anything that
we need will be provided for us.
It may not be prosperous in
terms of what we think we need,
but is exactly what we need.
Lord, allow us to have contentment today.
Lord, I pray that over every person that.
Lord, I'm praying for every person in
this room or as they pursue godliness
to be more and more like you, that
they will receive contentment in that.
Also Lord Discontentment at where
they're at in the relationship.
Lord, I know many of us desire to be
further and further on in our relationship
or maybe further to be faithful or to
be having the knowledge of your word.
And Lord, I pray that they are
content with where they are, but
Lord not staying there as well.
So Lord, we just lift up
this, this prayer to you.
Lord, just help us today.
Continue to say yes to you and to continue
to invite you into our lives Lord.
And so we pray this in your holy name.
Amen.